>> Kent C Dodds: All right
cool let's get this under way.
So I'm just gonna uncomment those.
The alternate to the module
is just what we're using for
the import and then the function
that returns the mock object.
So, this you think about this
function as an entirely new module.
So what would you put
inside of your module?
That is what this function is.
Except instead of module.exports,
in CommonJS or export default, whatever,
you're going to return,
cuz it's a function, not a module.
But for all intents and purposes,
the way that jest is going to treat it and
the way that you can treat it is,
as if it's a regular module.
And so, what we're doing is we're creating
a mock of the entire utels module.
So, rather than, so whenever any
part of our code goes to input this
module because we told just
we want to mock that module.
It's actually going to
swap out whatever import
there is with what we are returning here.
I can do this because it just actually
takes control over the module system
and node.
And so whenever you do a required
statement or input stateiment,
any of that, it's actually
going to go through just first.
And just will check it's registry of marks
and if there is a mark available for
what you are requiring then it
will use your mock instead.
And there are various APIs in jest to
say for this case don't use the mock,
use the actual implementation,
and things like that.
And then jest does some magic stuff to
make sure that it all works as you would
expect, despite the fact that this
code is actually running first.
And so there is some cool magic
stuff that jest does under the hood.
I don't think we really need to get
into that, just suffice it to say
that creating a mock like this
allows us to mock an entire module.
So here we just want to expose
the getWinner function.
And rather than the spyOn,
we can use jest.function to create a mock
function and then we can actually
pass our implementation here as well.
So this getWinner is gonna be a jest
function that is implemented like this.
It's gonna keep track of when
it's called and how it's called.
And now from that we
actually no longer need this
because utils.getwinner is now
going to be this function.
So we can get rid of this entirely.
And we don't need to
have this anymore either.
We don't need to restore it.
All of our test are going to be using
the get winner mock function and
so when you save this and our test ran so
fast we didn't notice but
yeah, they're still passing.
And there's one thing I wanna
mention about this, but
I'm gonna stop really quick for
any questions people have.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
>> Student: So this mock is replacing
the util is important in this file.
So if we import util's in another file and
don't lock it.
It wouldn't be overwritten by this.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, that's right.
So, this mock only applies for
this test, for the test in this file.
So if you made another test somewhere
else and actually, in fact we did,
this util is actually going
to be the actual one.
>> Student: Sure, and then is there
a way to override just certain-
>> Kent C Dodds: Properties?
Yeah, I'm glad that you asked.
So if we want to get the actual version
of the utils and then just override
certain properties as you were saying,
in our case there's only one property,
but so we'd say actualutils,
whatever you want to call it.
And then require .requireActual.
So requireActual is coming from jest,
that's not like a node thing.
So Jest Monkey Patches require
actual actual entre require.
Because actually, the require we're
using is jest require function anyway.
But then you'd say the relative path utils
and then what I would do is I'd just say,
I want all of the things except
this one I'm gonna override.
>> Student: Cool.
>> Kent C Dodds: That's a great question.
So one other thing.
Because we have this test and
it's calling Thumb war.
If we wanted to have another test and then
assert that getWinner was called twice.
Actually, here, we can do this.
So let's just copy-paste
returns winner again.
We'll save it,
we're gonna get an error because it's
now called four times instead of twice.
That's because we ran both of these tests.
You want your tests to be totally.
To work in total isolation of each other.
You should be able to run only
one if we skip here, .skip.
Then it's gonna work.
So you want to make it so
you can delete a test and
it doesn't impact any of your other tests.
They should all work in total
isolation of each other.
So to make this work,
there are a couple things we could do.
First we could start with
utils.getWinner.mockClear.
And that'll just clear out
all the state of the mock.
And we'll do that before
each of our tests.
So that would make it work.
Because we'll probably be doing this
in every single one of the tests in
this file, this is a good use case for,
before each.
>> Kent C Dodds: Oops yeah and
we'll just put that in there and
then we don't need to we don't need
to do that in every one of our test.
>> Kent C Dodds: Cool so there's one
more thing I don't think we're gonna do
it as an exercise I'll just
show it to you it'll be
kind of hard to do as an exercise anyway.
But does anybody have any
questions before we do that?
>> Student: I just had one more,
related to sort of you showing a case
where two tests success
are based upon each other,
is there a way jest to run
tests in a random order?
>> Kent C Dodds: All right,
that's an interesting question.
So, in tests within a single file.
As far as I know, there is not a way
to make it run in a random order.
It does run all of your test files
in parallel in random orders.
In fact, jest is so cool that if one
test file has a failing test and
then you make a change.
And it's going to run that test file
first, when it reruns all of your tests so
that you get that feedback very quickly.
Which is like just as all of these little
features like wow that is really handy.
But yeah,
as far as within a single test there
is no way to do that as far as I know.
It sounds like a pretty cool pull request,
though.
Okay, so let's go ahead, and
you don't have to do this exercise
because it's pretty straightforward.
So as was noted,
actually I think Peter mentioned this,
this mock will only be picked
up by this test file, and
all modules used during
the lifetime of this test module.
What if you have a module that you
pretty much never want to have,
like you're gonna be marking
in almost all of your tests.
So in that situation it's nice to be
able to isolate that to one file and
have the mark for
this module be in that one file forever.
So that's what this last en is all about
and actually I already have it for you.
The way that that works and
this is conventioned by jest.
I don't think there's a way
to change its convention but
you have your mask directory right next
to the module that you wanna mark.
And inside of that you give that the same
name as the thing that you wanna mark so
that name is important.
And then that is a module.
So anytime that module is required,
this is the one that it's
going to be pulling in rather
than the actual implementation.
So that's all that is.
So if we were to update.
Let's see.
Update 5.todo.
All we do is remove this but
then we have to instruct jest that we,
yeah we do wanna pick up the mock so
we say jest.mock.
The relative path to the module utils and
then because we're not providing a mock
function like a mock module function thing
it's gonna say you're not providing one,
I'm gonna go see if there is one.
If there's not then I think it blows
up but in our case there is one so,
we should be good, thumb-war.5.todo.
There we go.
So it's picking up our module
in the mocks directory.
So one other thing about this is often,
the thing that you want to mock,
is going to be something in
your node modules directory.
So you're going to mock axios, for
example, it's a pretty common case.
I actually have some additional
bonus exercises for mocks.
That you can find in utils.
And let's see it's in jest here so
we want to mock axios.
So we're not actually creating jest and
stuff.
So the way that works is you put your mock
directory at the root wherever your jest
configuration is set to have the root set
out, and you put your mocks in there.
And then those will be actually
be picked up automatically.
So if it's in the known modules directory,
those, any mocks for
those will be picked up automatically.
I guess jest figures that's like
the common case if you have a known
module that you have a mock for,
you probably always want to use it.
If you don't want that,
then you can say adjust.unmock and
then the name of the module.
And now, it will give me the actual, like,
this important now, is the actual module.
But again, that's lot of this
is kind of technology specific.
But more the general idea is
the optimal mocking strategy is to be
able to mock an entire module,
rather than monkey patching.
While that's still, it works and
it kinda makes sense,
being able to mock the entire module is
generally preferable for various reasons.
And in jest you accomplish that with this
mock directory or the jest.mock API.
Yeah?
>> Student2: Something we've come up
against is,
say we have an API that we're mocking and
we actually want to mock different
responses test by test And
so if we import the api module and
then you know mock it like this
we seem to have a hard time.
Let's see what's the actual
thing that's going on.
Okay, so
what actually happens is say we're.
Importing a module that
relies on the API module.
So we import but
inside that module that we're reporting
that then uses the API module,
it imports once, right?
>> Kent C Dodds: Mm-hm.
>> Student2: So we'll mark that at the top
of our test file.
But then it wont actually be used
in the module that we're importing,
that depends on the API.
So we'll always ended up having to use,
require the API module
repeatedly in each test.
To overwrite it, is there a better
way we could be doing that?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, so, let me first
make sure I understand what you're saying,
so you are using just the jest mock API,
is that right?
>> Student2: Yes.
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay, yeah.
So what's happening, or
what you're saying is like within a single
task you wanna have different mocks for,
yeah, for this API,
because you want to have
the responses different.
So there are a lot of
ways to approach that.
In general what I trying to think
if I have an example for you.
I think maybe the client mock might.
Yeah so what I do is in this example and
this was in something that I wasn't
I was planning on showing you.
So this may get a little bit confusing.
I expose a mock property on the export.
And this mock property
has a reset function.
And so you could expose any number of
functions that swap the Like object
assign certain properties or
certain functions and override those.
You can also rather than swapping
the entire implementation if it's
just one of those functions that
you're trying to change how
that implementation works
you can also do just dot or
like turn that into a mock function and
then mock implementation.
But if it really is the entire module,
let's see there was,
I think I actually just wrote
a blog post about this.
I've got a newsletter and
this last week's article
is about pure modules and
why it's a good idea.
One of the reasons is for test ability.
As an example of a situation where you
might need to do what you're suggesting.
Here we have this C module and at the root
level of that module it's doing some work.
So in general you want to avoid that for
various reasons.
One of them is test ability.
But if you need to reset this module,
have it rerun itself again.
Then jest has a thing for that.
Let's see.
It's the jest objects.
jest.resetAllModules.
>> Student2: So
that's what we've been doing-
>> Kent C Dodds: So you are doing that,
and then you require.
Yep, that's pretty much the way to do it.
>> Student2: Okay.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah,
it's kind of annoying but
if you have pure modules then it's a lot
easier to get avoid having to do that.
So pure module being like it's
just a module that exports some.
Functions, doesn't do
anything at the top level,
if all of your modules are that way except
for the one that kicks everything off,
then you won't normally need
to do this reset module thing.
And if you are then you could
probably find something else to do.
But yeah,
if you are doing stuff at the root level,
then yeah this reset
module is the way to go.
>> Student: I didn't think we were
thinking of moving towards what you
showed actually in the mock
up jpg reset method.
You know reset method,
you know it was cool seeing that because
that was what we were thinking of doing.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah yeah I
do use that and it works fine.
And you can just stick that in there
before each and yeah and it works fine.
>> Student: Thanks.
>> Kent C Dodds: All right, cool.
Any other questions?
All right, yeah?
>> Student3: Yeah, I was just gonna say
it, I mean do you use mocking a lot
because it seems like this is
a lot of work, recreating modules.
And so forth.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yes,
that's a great question.
I do try to avoid mocking.
The guiding principle for
how I think about testing the closer your
tests resemble the way your software
the more compensate can give you.
When users use your software
they do not mock anything.
And even software users,
the consumers of your APIs.
They don't mock things.
And also when you mock, you sever any
confidence that you have that those things
are working together properly.
So you have to have additional tests,
like contract tests,
to make sure that that
connection is working.
Which is fine, and
like there are use cases for it.
But yeah, if I can I try to avoid mocking.
But yeah, sometimes you can't avoid it.